[spec] Update syntax spec for memory64 (#50)
WebAssembly/memory64: document/core/syntax/types.rst

   \end{array}

.. _syntax-idxtype:

Index Type
~~~~~~~~~~

> 

Reviewer: There should be some explanatory sentence here, like with the other sections.

   \end{array}

> .. _syntax-idxtype:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _index:: ! index type
   pair: abstract syntax; index type
   single: memory; index type
   single: table; index type
.. _syntax-idxtype:
```

Index Type
~~~~~~~~~~

> Index types classify the type of the values that can be used to index into
> :ref:`memories <syntax-mem>` and :ref:`tables <syntax-table>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Index types* classify the values that can be used to index into :ref:`memories <syntax-mem>` or :ref:`tables <syntax-table>`.
```

.. math::
   \begin{array}{llll}

>    \production{limits} & \limits(iv) &::=&
>      \{ \LMIN~\X{iv}, \LMAX~\X{iv}^? \} \\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   \production{limits} & \limits &::=&
     \{ \LMIN~\I64, \LMAX~\I64^? \} \\
```
(see next comment)

.. math::
   \begin{array}{llll}
   \production{index type} & \indextype &::=&

>      \u32 ~|~ \u64 \\

Reviewer: These would be values. I think you mean `\I32` and `\I64` for the actual types.

   \production{memory type} & \memtype &::=&

>      \limits \\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     \indextype~\limits \\
```

.. math::
   \begin{array}{llll}
   \production{memory type} & \memtype &::=&

>      \idxtype~\limits.\X{it} \\

Author: I think I need to say that the idxtype matches the `it` suffix on the limits here, but I'm not sure how to do that.

Reviewer: By introducing a subscript on limits, as in the Overview.

Reviewer: On second thought, the more adequate notation would be parameters in parentheses, like we already use for [vectors](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/syntax/conventions.html#vectors):
```
limits(iv) ::= {min iv, max iv?}

memtype ::= idxtype limits(type(iv))
```
I'll update the overview with this.

.. math::
   \begin{array}{llll}
   \production{memory type} & \memtype &::=&

>      ~\idxtype~\limits(type(\X{iv})) \\

Reviewer: I think you mean something like `\limits(\F{val}(\idxtype))`, since you'd need to map the idxtype to a value representation.

However, I don't think this dependency works. In the binary grammar, decoding of limits can produce 64-bit limits, independent of the index type. So the abstract syntax must allow this. Instead of constraining the value range in the AST, it needs to be plain i64, and a range check has to occur in validation.

(In theory, we could make the binary decoder dependent on the index type as well, to match this, but such a type dependency is quite alien to how Wasm works elsewhere.)

Reviewer: Ah, scratch that, I see now that the intention is that the dependency is already built in into the decoder (which I missed, see latest comment).

Okay, so this would work, but it requires dependent types to work, so at least the reference interpreter cannot express it accurately. Since it does not add anything useful, I think it's still better to avoid this extra complexity.

Author: Are you saying we don't need/want to be parameterize `limits` like this?   I believe this was introduced to the overview by you in b52270d6f93291d2bf0ca9820d904aa7ed4dc5f8

Reviewer: Yes, sorry, my bad, it wasn't a good idea (I actually introduced it long ago in #13; that commit was just adjusting the notation — and screwed up the invocation of the `type` function on the way).

So yes, I think we should change it back. Now that tables are also 64-bit, we can even simplify it further relative to what it was before #13 and drop the subscript/parameter on limits altogether.

.. math::
   \begin{array}{llll}
   \production{table type} & \tabletype &::=&

>      ~\idxtype~\limits(type(\X{iv})) ~\reftype \\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     ~\idxtype~\limits ~\reftype \\
```

The syntax of sub types is :ref:`generalized <syntax-heaptype-ext>` for the purpose of specifying :ref:`validation <valid>` and :ref:`execution <exec>`.

.. _index:: ! index type
   pair: abstract syntax; index type
   single: memory; index type
   single: table; index type
.. _syntax-idxtype:

> Index Type

Reviewer: I have come to wonder whether "index type" is the appropriate name, since we use "index" for static indices only. Perhaps "offset type" (offtype) would be more appropriate. But we can figure that out in a later PR.

Author: Fair enough.  I'll open another issue for that: https://github.com/WebAssembly/memory64/issues/67

     \I32 ~|~ \I64 \\
   \end{array}

> .. _aux-idxtype-min:
> 
> The minimum of two index types is defined as |I32| if either of the types are
> |I32| and |I64| otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _aux-idxtype-min:

Convention
..........

The *minimum* of two index types is defined as |I32| if either of the types are |I32|,
and |I64| otherwise.

.. math::
   \begin{array}{llll}
   \itmin(\I64, \I64) &=& \I64 \\
   \itmin(\X{it}_1, \X{it}_2) &=& \I32 & (\otherwise) \\
   \end{array}
```
Plus define itmin as a macro pointing here.
